the situation with illegal border crossings is still very difficult, says interior minister vesna györkös žnidar. that's because countries to the north have adopted intra-eu border controls.
at the same time, the situation in southern countries is unpredictable. what is happening in serbia is currently the most relevant for slovenia, according to the minister. her comments came in response to an mp question during a regular session of the national assembly. there are approximately 10,000 migrants in serbia and they are unlikely to be granted asylum in western europe.  another worrying development is greece's plan to transfer migrants from the islands to the continent, which could mean an increase of illegal migrations,  the minister added in response to a question posed by vinko gorenak (sds).
an aliens' bill still  in play the position of the ministry on the aliens' bill, which the government has removed from consideration, has not changed.  the proposed solutions violate neither the constitution nor international law. if anyone at the ministry thought that the bill violated either the constitution or international law, we wouldn't have proposed it. 
no organized transports it's perfectly clear that there will be no transports. on this basis, it's possible to conclude that numerous asylum requests will be made in slovenia. it is the responsibility of the state to pass all measures necessary to guarantee security and stability in the case of mass migrations,  the minister said.
 in the case of a substantial increase of the migrant flow, certain basic functions of the state could come under threat, especially in the area of asylum,  the minister cautioned. she went on to say that such a situation could lead to a breakdown of the asylum system and jeopardize the supply chain, healthcare, education, integration, and security.
 slovenia could experience what happened in austria, germany, and hungary, where people had nowhere to go and they loitered at train stations and city parks. we don't want that,  concluded interior minister györkös žnidar.
al. ma.translated by j. b.